# teal.osprey 0.1.16

* Removed `scda` package dependency from examples.
* Fixed crash in `tm_g_heat_bygrade` when not plotting `Conmed`.
* Added validation to `tm_g_spiderplot.R` that checks if there are duplicates in X and Y facet variables.
* Improved input validation and used the `teal::validate_inputs` mechanism to send validation messages to the output panel.
* Removed `purrr` from dependencies.
* Added argument checks to `tm_g_patient_profile`.

### Breaking changes

* Replaced `chunks` with simpler `qenv` class.
* In all `tm_xyz_srv` modules `datasets` argument containing `FilteredData` have been replaced with the new argument `data` (`tdata` object) and `filter_panel_api` (`FilterPanelAPI`).
* Updated `arm_var` to point to the factor column in `ANL`. It can't be a character column anymore.
* Removed redundant formal arguments from `tm_g_patient_profile`.

# teal.osprey 0.1.15

### Breaking changes
* Soft deprecate function `label_aevar()`.

### Enhancements
* Added `teal.reporter` to all modules.
* Updated `shiny::validate` calls to `shinyvalidate` for better `UI` overview.
* Implemented `nestcolor` with slight refactoring to `tm_g_swimlane`. Added `nestcolor` in examples.

### Miscellaneous
* Added names to the `id` parameter of `teal.code::chunks_push` in all modules.
* Updated modules to not use datasets with names with suffix `_FILTERED` so the package works with the breaking changes in `teal.slice`.

# teal.osprey 0.1.14

### Enhancements
* Removed unneeded `chunk` evaluations in `tm_g_patient_profile` module.

### Miscellaneous
* Added a template to the `pkgdown` site.
* Updated package authors.

# teal.osprey 0.1.13

### Enhancements
* Added basic logging to the modules.
* The label of the select input widget to choose the `paramcd` is no longer hard coded to `ADTR` in `tm_g_spiderplot`.

### Miscellaneous
* Rewrote module to use `moduleServer` and updated calls to `teal.devel` modules which have also been written to use `moduleServer`.
* Replaced calls to `teal::root_modules` with `teal::modules` following deprecation of `teal::root_modules`.
* Adjusted package imports to take into account changes to the `teal` framework.
* Functions from imported packages are now fully specified.

# teal.osprey 0.1.12

### Breaking changes
* Refactored `tm_g_ae_oview` to remove the flag variables generated by the module by default and to replace parameter `add_flag` with `flag_var_anl`.

### Enhancements
* Added the new parameter `x_label` allowing to change the label of the `x` axis on the `tm_g_swimlane` module plot.
* Updated `tm_g_ae_sub` so that it no longer displays label inputs for group variables with no values selected.

### Bug fixes
* Fixed a bug in `tm_g_waterfall` so that the `Tumor Burden Parameter` `UI` element is now respected.

### Miscellaneous
* Updated R version requirement to `R >= 3.6`.
* Removed the function `teal::keys` in the examples of `tm_g_spiderplot` and `tm_g_waterfall` modules.
* Removed dependency on `test.nest` package.
* Removed dependency on `utils.nest` package and replaced its functions with equivalents from the `checkmate` package.

# teal.osprey 0.1.11

* Updated `LICENCE` and `README` with new package references.
* Updated document and tests with `scda` synthetic data to replace `random.cdisc.data`.
* Added `error_on_lint: TRUE` to `.lintr`.
* Removed unnecessary `importFrom` statements.
* Updated `tm_g_patient_profile` module's study days range to not accept infinite values.
* Fixed disappearing plots when webpage is zoom in/out.

# teal.osprey 0.1.10

### Enhancements
* Added a Shiny feature to `tm_g_swimlane` that will prevent needless re-render of the output when the user has not completely provided inputs to the vertical lines widget.

### Miscellaneous
* Altered the `Choose Up To 2:` inputs widget from the Encoding Panel to be independent of the Filtering Panel in `tm_g_butterfly`.
* Updated warning message when Tumor Burden Parameter is not selected in `tm_g_waterfall`.

### Bug fixes
* Fixed a bug in `tm_g_butterfly` that displays the filtering and faceting widgets despite not being provided in the arguments.

# teal.osprey 0.1.9

### New features
* Added new `teal` module `tm_g_heat_bygrade` for a heatmap by grade plot.
* Added new `teal` module `tm_g_ae_sub` for an `AE` by subgroups plot.

### Bug fixes
* Fixed misleading validate message in `tm_g_ae_oview` when either Control or Treatment variable is filtered out.
* Added a validate statement to output a better error message when both the left and right dichotomization values are filtered out of data.

### Miscellaneous
* Improved reactivity dependencies across modules.

# teal.osprey 0.1.8

* Added validation message if the dataset does not contain subjects from both the control and treatment arms in `tm_g_events_term_id`.
* Improved validation message if subject has been filtered out of dataset when used with `tm_g_patient_profile`.
* Fixed modules due to changes to `plot_with_settings` in latest `teal.devel` release.
* Updated study day and duration derivation in `tm_g_patient_profile`.

# teal.osprey 0.1.7

### Enhancements
* Added additional validation for horizontal and vertical reference lines in `tm_g_spider_plot`.

### Bug Fixes
* Fixed `tm_g_patient_profile` when adverse event line color variable is not selected.
* Fixed the issue of unknown date format and established minimum number of observation threshold in `tm_g_patient_profile`.

### Miscellaneous
* Retired the following `teal` modules due to duplication in `teal.modules.clinical`:
  - Teal module for `AE` overview summary table - can be replaced with `teal.modules.clinical::tm_t_events_summary`.
  - Teal module for `AE` summary table by preferred terms - can be replaced with `teal.modules.clinical::tm_t_events`.
  - Teal module for `AE` summary table by highest `NCI-CTCAE` grade - can be replaced with `teal.modules.clinical::tm_t_events_by_grade`.
  - Teal module for Disposition table - can be replaced with `teal.modules.clinical::tm_t_summary`.
* Moved `code` argument to `cdisc_dataset` (from `cdisc_data`) in examples.

# teal.osprey 0.1.6

* All graph modules now accept a `plot_width` argument which specifies the plot width and renders a slider to adjust the width interactively in the module.
* Replaced `plot_with_height` with `plot_with_settings` module throughout package.
* Show R Code now produces code generating only the datasets needed for the current module, not all datasets included in the data argument of `teal::init`.
* Evaluate chunks with `chunks_safe_eval` rather than `chunks_eval`.

# teal.osprey 0.1.5

*  Added new `teal` modules:
  - Teal module for events by term summary plot.
  - Teal module for `AE` overview summary plot.
  - Teal module for patient profile plot

# teal.osprey 0.1.4

* Minor changes in tests.

# teal.osprey 0.1.3

* Technical release with updated dependencies.

# teal.osprey 0.1.2

* New waterfall module.
* Refactored due to recent changes in `utils.nest`.

# teal.osprey 0.1.1

* Refactoring package according to the NEST standards:
  - Included test.nest tests.
  - Fixed outdated modules according to current teal functionality.
  - Fixed documentation examples and example_app.R.
  - Simplified dependencies.

# teal.osprey 0.1.0

* First versioned release of teal.osprey package, which include the following seven new functions to create `teal` modules for analysis functions in `osprey` v0.1.0:
  - Teal module for `AE` overview summary table.
  - Teal module for `AE` summary table by preferred terms.
  - Teal module for `AE` summary table by highest `NCI-CTCAE` grade.
  - Teal module for Disposition table.
  - Teal module for `AE` butterfly plot.
  - Teal module for `Swimlane` plot.
  - Teal module for Spider plot.
